So that have been the window object and the location object, time for the document object which of course
is not really the important one but the one you will work with a lot because you want to
interact with the DOM, with the HTML code.
So the document object is just another object on the window object, so which has another property,
so I can print it like this, console log document. If I hit run,
our screen is crowded by stuff because the document object holds the complete DOM, the complete HTML
code and a bunch of other properties and methods
and events we may use and I'll come into events soon enough too.
So this is not really helpful.
The document does have some other things, for example we can access a URL property to get our URL
but we could use location for that too of course. Document also has a title property,
if I print this, we get JSBin and this of course refer to the title of this page
you can also see up here in the tab. The document also of course has its body,
so if I log this, we get our DOM, our translated HTML code and all the events attached
there and so on,
so this is a very important part
and on that body for example, we may access the children.
Now if we print this, then we see an array of all the HTML tags represented of course as objects
here because again, they are translated into objects by the browser with their own attributes and properties
and
we can work with that and manipulate this. To show this, I'll open up my HTML
view here and I'll add h1 tag where I say hello
and now I want to log the first children,
let's see what happens if I hit run.
As you can see down here, the tag name is h1 and the text content is hello, so I'm kind of selecting
this element
I just created because it's a first child in the body here,
so I'm selecting this with the index of 0 and then I can access any of the properties you see here,
for example text content if I clear which just gives me hello,
so the text content of that element and that's important.
Each of the HTML elements you write here is transformed into its own object by the browser with all the
properties you just saw and the properties and objects you have depends on the type of HTML element
is. A link element has other properties than a button and you can use all those properties and methods
and whatever this element might have by simply accessing them here on the object which they are in the
end, the object created by the browser, the object you may access through Javascript
and that of course means you cannot only log it,
you could also set the text content to something else and now I'll need the output for that to show up and
watch this hello text here, if I hit run,
it's changed to something else.
And this is how you can interact with your DOM, with the HTML code and change it using runtime which
of course creates all those fancy effects users like so much because you don't need to reload the page,
you don't need to get a new page from the server,
you change the existing page and single page applications frameworks like Angular 2, if you have heard
of that, do exactly this.
They have one single page and they change it all the time and you can do this on your own as well.
You access the properties of your HTML elements and you change them or you just get them or whatever
you need to do.
Now how do you find out which properties an element has?
Well you saw one method, you can simply log it to the console like we did, right,
document body
children zero, this is the h1 element
and if I log this again, here you go.
These are all the properties you may access
and now before you fall off your chair, you don't really need access to all of them.
The most important ones are the ones you know from HTML coding, like setting the style or setting
the text through text content here of course
and yes let's set the style for example to see this.
So I'll again get rid of the log and instead access the style property
and here, this style property itself is an object with all the available CSS styles,
for example the background color.
Now notice, we don't have a dash here, it's not background-color,
it's with a capital C because we can't use dashes in Javascript variable or property names
but I could set it to red and if I hit run, we got this red background
now. And this is how you can interact with it
and it's really just diving in, looking it up and learning it because as you can see, it's a bit of a too long
list to go through its details here but here for example, you have the style object, this is still the object from
before which I printed, this h1 element
and here you see all the CSS styles you can set, the background color which wasn't set before
but now would be set to red here.
Now rightfully, you might say this is all nice but it's a bit difficult to select all the elements
like this because imagine you don't have this but you have an unordered list where you have a list item,
where you have a link, where you then want to access something like this link and you have multiple
list items and you certainly don't want to say document children, then here this is the first children,
then the children of this element because you can also chain this,
you can select children of a child element and then this one, that is really difficult.
So we'll learn other ways of doing this soon.